README.md, before:

# copilot.lua

This plugin is the pure lua replacement for [github/copilot.vim](https://github.com/github/copilot.vim).

<details>
<summary>Motivation behind `copilot.lua`</summary>

While using `copilot.vim`, for the first time since I started using neovim my laptop began to overheat. Additionally,
I found the large chunks of ghost text moving around my code, and interfering with my existing cmp ghost text disturbing.
As lua is far more efficient and makes things easier to integrate with modern plugins, this repository was created.
</details>

## Install

Install the plugin with your preferred plugin manager.
For example, with [packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim):

```lua
use { "zbirenbaum/copilot.lua" }
```

### Authentication

Once copilot is running, run `:Copilot auth` to start the authentication process.

## Setup and Configuration

You have to run the `require("copilot").setup(options)` function in order to start Copilot.
If no options are provided, the defaults are used.

Because the copilot server takes some time to start up, it is recommend that you lazy load copilot.
For example:

```lua
use {
  "zbirenbaum/copilot.lua",
  cmd = "Copilot",
  event = "InsertEnter",
  config = function()
    require("copilot").setup({})
  end,
}
```

The following is the default configuration:

```lua
require('copilot').setup({
  panel = {
    enabled = true,
    auto_refresh = false,
    keymap = {
      jump_prev = "[[",
      jump_next = "]]",
      accept = "<CR>",
      refresh = "gr",
      open = "<M-CR>"
    },
    layout = {
      position = "bottom", -- | top | left | right | horizontal | vertical
      ratio = 0.4
    },
  },
  suggestion = {
    enabled = true,
    auto_trigger = false,
    hide_during_completion = true,
    debounce = 75,
    keymap = {
      accept = "<M-l>",
      accept_word = false,
      accept_line = false,
      next = "<M-]>",
      prev = "<M-[>",
      dismiss = "<C-]>",
    },
  },
  filetypes = {
    yaml = false,
    markdown = false,
    help = false,
    gitcommit = false,
    gitrebase = false,
    hgcommit = false,
    svn = false,
    cvs = false,
    ["."] = false,
  },
  copilot_node_command = 'node', -- Node.js version must be > 18.x
  server_opts_overrides = {},
})
```

### panel

Panel can be used to preview suggestions in a split window. You can run the
`:Copilot panel` command to open it.

If `auto_refresh` is `true`, the suggestions are refreshed as you type in the buffer.

The `copilot.panel` module exposes the following functions:

```lua
require("copilot.panel").accept()
require("copilot.panel").jump_next()
require("copilot.panel").jump_prev()
require("copilot.panel").open({position, ratio})
require("copilot.panel").refresh()
```

### suggestion

When `auto_trigger` is `true`, copilot starts suggesting as soon as you enter insert mode. 

When `auto_trigger` is `false`, use the `next` or `prev` keymap to trigger copilot suggestion.

To toggle auto trigger for the current buffer, use `require("copilot.suggestion").toggle_auto_trigger()`.

Copilot suggestion is automatically hidden when `popupmenu-completion` is open. In case you use a custom
menu for completion, you can set the `copilot_suggestion_hidden` buffer variable to `true` to have the
same behavior. For example, with `nvim-cmp`:

```lua
cmp.event:on("menu_opened", function()
  vim.b.copilot_suggestion_hidden = true
end)

cmp.event:on("menu_closed", function()
  vim.b.copilot_suggestion_hidden = false
end)
```

The `copilot.suggestion` module exposes the following functions:

```lua
require("copilot.suggestion").is_visible()
require("copilot.suggestion").accept(modifier)
require("copilot.suggestion").accept_word()
require("copilot.suggestion").accept_line()
require("copilot.suggestion").next()
require("copilot.suggestion").prev()
require("copilot.suggestion").dismiss()
require("copilot.suggestion").toggle_auto_trigger()
```

### filetypes

Specify filetypes for attaching copilot.

Example:

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  filetypes = {
    markdown = true, -- overrides default
    terraform = false, -- disallow specific filetype
    sh = function ()
      if string.match(vim.fs.basename(vim.api.nvim_buf_get_name(0)), '^%.env.*') then
        -- disable for .env files
        return false
      end
      return true
    end,
  },
}
```

If you add `"*"` as a filetype, the default configuration for `filetypes` won't be used anymore. e.g.

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  filetypes = {
    javascript = true, -- allow specific filetype
    typescript = true, -- allow specific filetype
    ["*"] = false, -- disable for all other filetypes and ignore default `filetypes`
  },
}
```

### copilot_node_command

Use this field to provide the path to a specific node version such as one installed by nvm. Node.js version must be 18.x or newer.

Example:

```lua
copilot_node_command = vim.fn.expand("$HOME") .. "/.config/nvm/versions/node/v18.18.2/bin/node", -- Node.js version must be > 18.x
```

### server_opts_overrides

Override copilot lsp client settings. The `settings` field is where you can set the values of the options defined in [SettingsOpts.md](./SettingsOpts.md).
These options are specific to the copilot lsp and can be used to customize its behavior. Ensure that the name field is not overriden as is is used for
efficiency reasons in numerous checks to verify copilot is actually running. See `:h vim.lsp.start_client` for list of options.

Example:

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  server_opts_overrides = {
    trace = "verbose",
    settings = {
      advanced = {
        listCount = 10, -- #completions for panel
        inlineSuggestCount = 3, -- #completions for getCompletions
      }
    },
  }
}
```

## Commands

`copilot.lua` defines the `:Copilot` command that can perform various actions. It has completion support, so try it out.

## Integrations

The `copilot.api` module can be used to build integrations on top of `copilot.lua`.

- [zbirenbaum/copilot-cmp](https://github.com/zbirenbaum/copilot-cmp): Integration with [`nvim-cmp`](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp).
- [AndreM222/copilot-lualine](https://github.com/AndreM222/copilot-lualine): Integration with [`lualine.nvim`](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim).

Commit message:

feat: add only_buflisted option to control whether copilot attaches to `buflisted` buffers
- Update README.md to document the new `only_buflisted` setting.
- Add `only_buflisted` config option in lua/copilot/config.lua.
- Modify attachment logic in lua/copilot/util.lua to respect `only_buflisted`.

README.md, after:

# copilot.lua

This plugin is the pure lua replacement for [github/copilot.vim](https://github.com/github/copilot.vim).

<details>
<summary>Motivation behind `copilot.lua`</summary>

While using `copilot.vim`, for the first time since I started using neovim my laptop began to overheat. Additionally,
I found the large chunks of ghost text moving around my code, and interfering with my existing cmp ghost text disturbing.
As lua is far more efficient and makes things easier to integrate with modern plugins, this repository was created.
</details>

## Install

Install the plugin with your preferred plugin manager.
For example, with [packer.nvim](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim):

```lua
use { "zbirenbaum/copilot.lua" }
```

### Authentication

Once copilot is running, run `:Copilot auth` to start the authentication process.

## Setup and Configuration

You have to run the `require("copilot").setup(options)` function in order to start Copilot.
If no options are provided, the defaults are used.

Because the copilot server takes some time to start up, it is recommend that you lazy load copilot.
For example:

```lua
use {
  "zbirenbaum/copilot.lua",
  cmd = "Copilot",
  event = "InsertEnter",
  config = function()
    require("copilot").setup({})
  end,
}
```

The following is the default configuration:

```lua
require('copilot').setup({
  panel = {
    enabled = true,
    auto_refresh = false,
    keymap = {
      jump_prev = "[[",
      jump_next = "]]",
      accept = "<CR>",
      refresh = "gr",
      open = "<M-CR>"
    },
    layout = {
      position = "bottom", -- | top | left | right | horizontal | vertical
      ratio = 0.4
    },
  },
  suggestion = {
    enabled = true,
    auto_trigger = false,
    hide_during_completion = true,
    debounce = 75,
    keymap = {
      accept = "<M-l>",
      accept_word = false,
      accept_line = false,
      next = "<M-]>",
      prev = "<M-[>",
      dismiss = "<C-]>",
    },
  },
  filetypes = {
    yaml = false,
    markdown = false,
    help = false,
    gitcommit = false,
    gitrebase = false,
    hgcommit = false,
    svn = false,
    cvs = false,
    ["."] = false,
  },
  only_buflisted = true,
  copilot_node_command = 'node', -- Node.js version must be > 18.x
  server_opts_overrides = {},
})
```

### panel

Panel can be used to preview suggestions in a split window. You can run the
`:Copilot panel` command to open it.

If `auto_refresh` is `true`, the suggestions are refreshed as you type in the buffer.

The `copilot.panel` module exposes the following functions:

```lua
require("copilot.panel").accept()
require("copilot.panel").jump_next()
require("copilot.panel").jump_prev()
require("copilot.panel").open({position, ratio})
require("copilot.panel").refresh()
```

### suggestion

When `auto_trigger` is `true`, copilot starts suggesting as soon as you enter insert mode.

When `auto_trigger` is `false`, use the `next` or `prev` keymap to trigger copilot suggestion.

To toggle auto trigger for the current buffer, use `require("copilot.suggestion").toggle_auto_trigger()`.

Copilot suggestion is automatically hidden when `popupmenu-completion` is open. In case you use a custom
menu for completion, you can set the `copilot_suggestion_hidden` buffer variable to `true` to have the
same behavior. For example, with `nvim-cmp`:

```lua
cmp.event:on("menu_opened", function()
  vim.b.copilot_suggestion_hidden = true
end)

cmp.event:on("menu_closed", function()
  vim.b.copilot_suggestion_hidden = false
end)
```

The `copilot.suggestion` module exposes the following functions:

```lua
require("copilot.suggestion").is_visible()
require("copilot.suggestion").accept(modifier)
require("copilot.suggestion").accept_word()
require("copilot.suggestion").accept_line()
require("copilot.suggestion").next()
require("copilot.suggestion").prev()
require("copilot.suggestion").dismiss()
require("copilot.suggestion").toggle_auto_trigger()
```

### filetypes

Specify filetypes for attaching copilot.

Example:

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  filetypes = {
    markdown = true, -- overrides default
    terraform = false, -- disallow specific filetype
    sh = function ()
      if string.match(vim.fs.basename(vim.api.nvim_buf_get_name(0)), '^%.env.*') then
        -- disable for .env files
        return false
      end
      return true
    end,
  },
}
```

If you add `"*"` as a filetype, the default configuration for `filetypes` won't be used anymore. e.g.

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  filetypes = {
    javascript = true, -- allow specific filetype
    typescript = true, -- allow specific filetype
    ["*"] = false, -- disable for all other filetypes and ignore default `filetypes`
  },
}
```

### only_buflisted

If `only_buflisted` is `true` (the default value), copilot will only attach to buffers that are shows up in the buffer list.

### copilot_node_command

Use this field to provide the path to a specific node version such as one installed by nvm. Node.js version must be 18.x or newer.

Example:

```lua
copilot_node_command = vim.fn.expand("$HOME") .. "/.config/nvm/versions/node/v18.18.2/bin/node", -- Node.js version must be > 18.x
```

### server_opts_overrides

Override copilot lsp client settings. The `settings` field is where you can set the values of the options defined in [SettingsOpts.md](./SettingsOpts.md).
These options are specific to the copilot lsp and can be used to customize its behavior. Ensure that the name field is not overriden as is is used for
efficiency reasons in numerous checks to verify copilot is actually running. See `:h vim.lsp.start_client` for list of options.

Example:

```lua
require("copilot").setup {
  server_opts_overrides = {
    trace = "verbose",
    settings = {
      advanced = {
        listCount = 10, -- #completions for panel
        inlineSuggestCount = 3, -- #completions for getCompletions
      }
    },
  }
}
```

## Commands

`copilot.lua` defines the `:Copilot` command that can perform various actions. It has completion support, so try it out.

## Integrations

The `copilot.api` module can be used to build integrations on top of `copilot.lua`.

- [zbirenbaum/copilot-cmp](https://github.com/zbirenbaum/copilot-cmp): Integration with [`nvim-cmp`](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp).
- [AndreM222/copilot-lualine](https://github.com/AndreM222/copilot-lualine): Integration with [`lualine.nvim`](https://github.com/nvim-lualine/lualine.nvim).
